>> Josh Long: I wanted to spend a brief
moment here talking about enterprise
integration patterns.
And the reason I think about this
stuff a lot is because increasingly,
as we move forward in time, the body,
the surface area of things with
which I cannot talk grows bigger.
There's a whole ecosystem here around
enterprise integration patterns.
Usually this stuff comes from the world of
like legacy 90s software, you know, where
you've got like very, very hard, isolated
things with which you want to integrate.
But now everything is
a distributed system.
And so this technology, this idea, this
practice has become more useful than ever.
What has changed is the idea of the
broker, of the messaging queue as the hub
around all around,
which all of this sort of rotates, right?
That just isn't a thing anymore, right?
Nowadays you have your applications, those
things need to talk to other things and so
they hang off integration functionality.
So we could take that example
that we looked at earlier, and
if you needed to listen to messages coming
in From Kafka or RabbitMQ or whatever,
you could just add this method and be done
with it in much the same way as you did
event listener with
the Spring boot events.
But what happens if you want to need to do
a little bit more than just take a message
straight off the wire and process it?
This is where you get into the realm
of enterprise integration patterns.
And so we have this amazing book
written by Bobby Hope and Gregor Wolff.
Bobby Hope was one of the people
in the design patterns world back
in the 90s, right?
And it changed the world.
And this is actually how I got into
Spring is because of this book.
This book was written in 2004.
I was already using Spring.
But I mean, when I say got into.
I mean, I started writing code for right.
To contribute to the spring projects is
because this book kind of changed my life.
I was already dealing with
Messaging Technologies circa 2004, 2005.
I was using Rendezvous,
I was using web methods,
I was using Rendezvous from tibco,
I was using X Way integrator, which is
not my friend, we didn't love each other.
And then I started realizing,
okay, these things are very hard,
sort of isolated things and
they require a lot of consultants.
You know, same thing for
MQ series from IBM.
They really wanted a lot of consultants.
Biz talk I don't know about,
I bet it's fine, I'm sure it is.
I don't know.
But the point is I was really looking for
something that would give me some of this
integration capability, but
that didn't require 10 consultants and
golf games to get the job done, you know,
So I look for open source options and
there are some open source enterprise
service buses right in the Java community.
Yeah, they even mentioned a whole
bunch of different open source ESPs.
Apache Camel, Mule, WC02, Oracle Service
Bus, ESP fuse, Sonic Mix, Sonic, ESP, etc.
One of these, I think it's Sonic,
there's a guy named Dave Chappell,
not the comedian, right?
[LAUGH] Dave Chappell, not the comedian,
I think it's spelled basically the same.
Dave Chappell wrote the original
O'Reilly JMS book, right.
And that book.
You know, I didn't, I didn't love the
technology, but I appreciated what this
guy was doing because I think he was
working at Sonic at the time and
he did some really good stuff
in the messaging space.
So I actually got him to sign a copy of
that book and he, he signed the message.
He signed the book.
Get the message, exclamation mark.
Anyway, all that to say messaging,
super good, super interesting.
There's a whole world of stuff around it,
around how to process messaging,
how to deal with it.
And there's four different types of
integration styles that sort of naturally
lend themselves to this discussion.
File transfer.
This is where one system produces data
that gets written to a file that another
one consumes.
You've got shared database, in which one
system writes something to a database and
then another one consumes it.
That's a bit of an anti-pattern,
right, that's a very un microservice.
Today you've got rpc.
Why is RPC a problem?
Well, you're making invocations of methods
on a remote service synchronously.
What happens if that service disappears?
You're hosed, aren't you, right?
So it's the worst of possible integration
options, but it's very common.
And then messaging, Messaging gives
you all the benefits of all these.
You're not coupled in that you
don't have to be in the same place.
Like files.
I can write a file and then disappear and
you can read the file later on.
So it's asynchronous.
And all they have to agree on
is the location of the file.
Shared database has the same kind
of benefits of file transfer.
And then RPC requires you to be in
the same place and at the same time.
So these both require
being in the same place.
Messaging requires you to know about the
same broker, but you can be asynchronous.
So this gives you all the benefits
of these three things without any of
the drawbacks.
So messaging is a asynchronous by default,
you can do things like fire and
forget you don't have to
operate at the same time,
I can make a request and you can produce
the response five hours later, right?
So it gives you a lot of decoupling.
So by default, when you think about
decoupling and building integrations
in systems, you've got to think
about it in terms of messaging.
So I've shown you how to do REST and web
stuff, right, the hypermedia and all that.
But the final form of a big distributed
system is going to be messaging, right?
You'll start doing it in terms of I send
a message and that updates the state,
as opposed to I ask a system
to give me the state, right?
And so I really, I hope you'll like,
keep messaging in your heart.
And I'm going to show you a quick
framework here called Spring Integration.
Yes, sir.
>> Speaker 2: Is there anything that does,
like state management of messaging?
Like, so
it's like a process of multiple messages
that completes to do some specific task.
>> Josh Long: Did you look ahead?
>> Speaker 2: I have not.
>> Josh Long: Did you cheat?
That's what we're talking about right now.
Right now.
That's what I was about to say.
Spring Integration is the project
that does exactly that.
And it has the ability to
support all these patterns.
See all these patterns on the right here?
So this is where my story finishes up,
which is I read this book, I'm a big fan.
And you know who else read this book?
A gentleman named Mark Fisher
over on the Spring team, right?
Mark Fisher, he's a genius
that makes terrible mistakes.
And the terrible mistake that
he made was he hired me, right?
Which is regrettable, I'm sure.
And he built this technology to support
these patterns in an open source
way in a nice clean, idiomatic spring way.
And so the API elements in Spring
Integration map one to one to the concepts
in this book, as opposed to what so
many of these other technologies
do where they have different names for
what's already.
This is the lingua franca of integration,
these patterns.
If you understand these patterns,
then you're ready to go, right?
And if you understand these patterns,
you can start writing code
in Spring Integration.
So I'm going to show you a very simple
example using Spring Integration.
And I've just shown you how to do Kafka.
But we're gonna keep it much
more simple here, right?
Remember, in most integration flows,
you've got a thing that produces events
and then a thing that
consumes those events.
So a source and a sync, right?
In a messaging world, the thing that
consumes the events from the external
world is an inbound adapter, it takes
the results of some external thing,
be it a new file that
appears in a file system,
a new message that appears in Kafka, a new
message that appears in an email inbox,
a new tweet that gets sent out,
a new whatever, right?
Any event that happens in the real world,
you have an inbound adapter that allows
you to pull those things in and
then deliver them to consumers.
Those consumers sit in a pipeline,
like you were saying, right, things that
process these messages, and there
are components that act in that pipeline.
There's things for filtering, for
transforming, for routing, for
splitting, for aggregating, et cetera.
And then finally, when you're done,
you write the thing somewhere.
You write the results of that
processing out somewhere, usually.
And that's an outbound adapter.
So you might take a data.
You might take,
as we're going to do in this example,
we're going to read data
from a file system.
As new files arrive,
we'll listen for the files and
we'll start reading them as they
get dropped into a folder, right?
And then we'll process them and
then, I don't know,
write them out to the console or
put them out.
You could put them in a database,
you could send them over Kafka,
you could do whatever.
The point is, the code in the middle
is completely unawares of what
you did at the end and
what you do in the beginning.
It's a pipes and
filters architecture, right?
So the inbound adapter is the only thing
you swap out to change the behavior of
the connections, right?
The code in the middle is
unaware of the inbound and
the outbound adapters that proceed and
succeed it.